At the moment if we don't find a place we simply return 200 response.
For example for P2 with an empty object we could do that but I would argue it's not really a success
which at 200 status code indicates though if we didn't find anything I would rather return a 404 error
status code which means the request didn't find any data for Dad.
Here we can check if not place so if Data's false see which would be the case if place is undefined
which is the case if we don't find a place here then I don't want to return this response but instead
a different response where we set a different status code.
Now to set a status code we can call the status method on the response object by default as a set to
200.
So we don't need to call it if we want to set it to 200 but we can set to 404 for example which would
be a standard status code for saying we didn't find anything for to give an input and then we can still
call Jason to add some data and we should do that to then also send the request.
And here we could add a message could not find a place for to provide that I.D. and that message could
be presented to the user later in the front end or in the client where attaching to this API.
Now one important note at the moment we would actually introduce a bug here because here I'm sending
a response and this function execution of course doesn't stop there after.
So this line is all the reached after this line executes so we would send a no response which is not
possible and which would therefore cause an error to work around that we could ever wrap this response
in the else block so that only one of the two code snippets executes or to save that extra code for
defaults block simply return here Not because anyone's interested in the return value of calling Jason
but simply because when we return no other code there often executes and that's exactly what I want.
If we make it in year and we sent this response I don't want this code to execute.
So returning here makes sense with that if we save this and we try to load a place with an idea that
doesn't exist.
You see I get this object with message could not find a place for to provided idea and we also see it's
already marked as red here because we got a 400 from 4 status code and that's way better in my opinion.
And of course I want to do something similar here in the other route.
I also want to send this response here.
If we're looking for a user I.D. which doesn't exist.
So here I will say could not find a place 40 provided user I.D. If we now try this and search for user
slash you too I get could not find a place for the provided user I.D. If I enter a valid I.D..
It of course works the same for my place if I enter a valid I.D. here.
It also works.
Now that's nice but you can already tell that we're having some code duplication here.
We have a very similar check and the way we sent the response is all the pretty equal.
The only difference is the message so it would be nice to kind of find a different solution here to
have less code duplication.
And for that we can use a feature express J as has built in a default error handler.
We set this up an app J.S. and we set it up as a middleware there.
Here we simply add a middleware after our roots middleware and this middleware here doesn't need a path
filter.
Instead we directly at our middleware function.
And now it's a special middleware function though.
You know the middleware functions with free parameters request response and next.
This is a middleware function.
Express will apply on every incoming request.
Now let's tweak does a little bit and let's add a fourth argument the fourth parameter which actually
is our first parameter here.
An error if you provide a middleware function that takes four parameters express J S will recognize
this and treat this as a special middleware function as an error handling middleware function.
That means that this function will only be executed on requests that have an error or attached to it.
You could say so where an error was flown in the end.
So this function to put it in other words will execute if any middleware in front of it yields an error.
And then in here we can set up some default error handling code.
First of all we should check if response headers sent is true.
That means we check if a response has already been sent.
If that's the case we want to return next and forward the error which means we won't send a response
on our own because somehow we already did send a response that you can only send one response in total.
This is a little help or property which helps you check if a response and the headers attached to it
has already been sent.
If not so if we make it past disabled check we know no response has been sent yet.
And in this case I want to send one now.
I want to set a status code on that response and I want to give the developer of this application so
us in this case a chance of setting that code on the error object which is thrown in one of the other
middleware as we're not doing this right now but we're doing it soon so we'll check if all the error
object I'm getting here if we have a code property and if data's not on the fine.
If we don't have it I'll fall back to 500 as a default status code of 500 code indicates that something
went wrong on the server so eager does a set or if it's false it this value will be used this is default
javascript code and they're after all call Jason.
We could all use the changing syntax I used before to chain it right here.
It's up to you here a structured across multiple lines to make it a little bit more readable.
And there I want to add a object which has a message property because every error I've sent back from
my API I should have a message property which the attached client can then use to show an error message
to their users.
That's not a must to do but it's a convention you'll see a lot in our rest api is out there and it is
a convention that makes a lot of sense in which I think Dale four should be added to our application
as well.
And here again I want to check if I have a message on the error object which I will use and sent back.
If we do have it and otherwise provide a generic default message of an unknown error occurred and we'll
only use that if there is no message property or an undefined invalid faulty value in the message property
of the error object.
Now that's our error handling middleware.
How do we trigger it.
We trigger it by doing one of two things either here instead of for turning a response we never do that
either we throw a new error here or we call next and pass an error queue it both works.
There is one important difference if you would be in some asynchronous code here which I'm not here
at the moment but which we later will be when we work with the database.
Then you have to use the next and past the error object approach.
If you're in a synchronous middleware as I'm currently here because we have only synchronous actions
then you can all just throw an error.
I'll implement both one and each function.
So did you see both later will only work with next error because we will work with asynchronous code
for the moment we're not doing that.
So first of all let me create an error here though I will create a new error object and that already
takes a message in its constructor.
And here I'll say could not find plays for the provided I.D. on that air object I'll add a code property
with the daughter of simply dynamically adding that property because here in aptly S.A. error handling
middleware I'm looking for such a code property and I'll set it to 404 so that this will be the actual
status code which our error handling middleware will send back.
And then I can throw that error and this will trigger the error handling middleware.
Now let's copy that here.
To get second root and there I will not throw it but call next to forwarded to the next middleware in
line and since I have forward an error it will reach the next error handling middleware in line and
there I will say I could not find a place for the provided user I.D. If we now save that and we try
and get a player's I.D. which doesn't exist.
You see I get the same object as before and the same response with a 404 status code.
So that works as before.
But technically on the backend it now works in a cleaner in a better way.
Now what you can all tell however is for user you to.
It does not work.
So using next error does not do the trick here.
Well the reason is that I don't return.
So that means this code also is still executed.
That's also why we have an error here on the backend because more than one response was sent.
As I mentioned you shouldn't do that so you must not forget to return here when throwing an error.
You don't have to return because if you use fro that already cancels the function execution next does
not cancel it.
So we have to return to off to make sure this code doesn't run.
And with Dad if we now search for it and felt invalid user I.D. we also can get our default response
that works.
But still we have some code duplication here in these lines so we can maybe optimized is even more if
we start adding our own error model.
Let's do that in the next lecture.